When does it make sense to start big and when does it make sense to employ elasticity?
It makes sense to start big with
larger and more powerful computing storage when you have
predictable traffic, requests, and workloads.
A sturdy CI/CD pipeline,
and strong IT and Dev support to monitor
your environment and make changes when they see a shift in resource utilization,
so they can scale up or down as needed to balance performance and costs.
Remember, when you already know what you need,
you can lower cost by reserving your compute in advance and
predict and even lower your annual Cloud spend.
Employing elasticity is the way to go when you're aware of
your application's usage patterns and history of surges and requests and access,
such as an application that is used extensively
every day when people arrive at work between around
7:00 and 9:00 and then usage levels off during the day
and surges again between 3:00 and 5:00 whenever one is wrapping up for the day.
Running applications that experience
extreme usage fluctuations is also a good use of elasticity.
Such as a platform where users post content that goes
viral frequently at unexpected intervals,
and in the meantime,
usage is generally stable.
AWS has services that can help you manage your Cloud budget and keep costs under control.
AWS Budgets gives you the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when
your costs or usage exceed or are forecasted to exceed your budgeted amount,
and can even alert you when your utilization drops below your defined threshold.
AWS Code Guru, that can evaluate code as it's being written to find the most inefficient,
costly, and unproductive lines of code.
Billing Alarms, which are notifications that contact you when
your billing threshold is approaching or has been reached.
An AWS Trusted Advisor,
which gives you proactive recommendations to optimize your AWS environment for cost,
performance, security, fault tolerance, and service limits.
AWS Trusted Advisor can scan your environment and give you feedback if you want it.
But what can it tell you?
Well, it can tell you about over utilized EC2 instances,
which might indicate that the application running on that instance may
experience performance issues during periods of high utilization.
It can tell you about unattached EBS storage volumes which incur costs every month.
It can also tell you about unattached elastic IP addresses,
which incur costs when they aren't attached to a running instance.